Add `Maintaining Balance for Open Source Maintainers` article (#3058)
github/opensource.guide: _articles/maintaining-balance-for-open-source-maintainers.md

### Reflect on what causes you to get out of balance and stressed out

It's important to understand what causes us to get burned out. Here are a few common themes we saw among open source maintainers:

* **Lack of positive feedback:** Users are far more likely to reach out when they have a complaint. If everything works great, they tend to stay silent. It can be discouraging to see a growing list of issues without the positive feedback showing how your contributions are making a difference.

<aside markdown="1" class="pquote">
  <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/thisisnic?s=180" class="pquote-avatar" alt="avatar">
  I was unable to focus or start on a task. I had a lack of empathy for users.
  <p markdown="1" class="pquote-credit">
— <a href="https://github.com/thisisnic">@thisisnic</a>, maintainer of Apache Arrow
  </p>

> </aside>

Reviewer: This quote was previously attributed by `@gabek`.

Reviewer 2: Strange, it shows up as @gabek in the rendered page. Do you know what's going on @leereilly ?
<img width="538" alt="Screenshot 2023-08-02 at 9 26 37 AM" src="https://github.com/github/opensource.guide/assets/617994/85fd574c-787b-4827-b366-1e3270e1ed57">

Reviewer 2: Ohhh I see the quote was copied incorrectly below again. It should be 
>“Sometimes it feels a bit like shouting into the void and I find that feedback really energizes me. We have lots of happy but quiet users” 
<img width="532" alt="Screenshot 2023-08-02 at 9 29 07 AM" src="https://github.com/github/opensource.guide/assets/617994/a2afabcd-daf6-4141-8acb-9501b049837a">

<aside markdown="1" class="pquote">
 I'm a big believer in good wearables. With the science behind it, you can understand how you could have done better and how to get to an optimal state of what you want to do.
  <p markdown="1" class="pquote-credit">
— open source maintainer
  </p>
</aside>

### What would you need to continue sustaining yourself and your community?

This will look different for each maintainer, and will change depending on your phase of life and other external factors. But here are a few themes we heard:

* **Lean on the community:** Delegation and finding contributors can alleviate the workload. Having multiple points of contact for a project can help you take a break without worrying. Connect with other maintainers and the wider community–in groups like the [Maintainer Community](http://maintainers.github.com/). This can be a great resource for peer support and learning. 

  You can also look for ways to engage with the user community, so you can regularly hear feedback and understand the impact of your open source work.

> * **Explore funding:** Whether you're looking for some pizza money, or trying to go full time open source, there are many resources to help! As a first step, consider turning on [GitHub Sponsors](https://github.com/sponsors) to allow others to sponsor your open source work. If you're thinking about making the jump to full-time, apply for the next round of [GitHub Accelerator](http://accelerator.github.com/).

Reviewer 3: [nitpick] Hmmm..., I don't think GH Sponsors necessarily has to be a first step. It could be an option that maintainers can use. Reframing it as something to consider and mentioning other programs would put less pressure on maintainers to only use GH Sponsors. 
```suggestion
* **Explore funding:** Whether you're looking for some pizza money, or trying to go full time open source, there are many resources to help! Consider turning to [GitHub Sponsors](https://github.com/sponsors), [Stackaid](https://www.stackaid.us/), or [Open Collective](https://opencollective.com/) to allow others to sponsor your open source work. 
If you're thinking about making the jump to full-time, apply for the next round of [GitHub Accelerator](http://accelerator.github.com/). 
```

 Use [Copilot](https://github.com/features/copilot/) for the boring stuff - do the fun stuff
  <p markdown="1" class="pquote-credit">
— open source maintainer
  </p>
</aside>

* **Rest and recharge:** Make time for your hobbies and interests outside of open source. Take weekends off to unwind and rejuvenate–and set your [GitHub status](https://docs.github.com/account-and-profile/setting-up-and-managing-your-github-profile/customizing-your-profile/personalizing-your-profile#setting-a-status) to reflect your availability! A good night's sleep can make a big difference in your ability to sustain your efforts long-term.

  If you find certain aspects of your project particularly enjoyable, try to structure your work so you can experience it throughout your day.

<aside markdown="1" class="pquote">
  <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/danielroe?s=180" class="pquote-avatar" alt="avatar">
 I'm finding more opportunity to sprinkle ‘moments of creativity' in the middle of the day rather than trying to switch off in evening.
  <p markdown="1" class="pquote-credit">
— <a href="https://github.com/danielroe">@danielroe</a>, maintainer of Nuxt
  </p>
</aside>

> * **Set boundaries:** You can't say yes to every request. This can be as simple as saying, "I can't get to that right now and I do not have plans to in the future," or listing out what you're interested in doing and not doing in the README. For instance, you could say: "I only merge PRs which have clearly listed reasons why they were made," or, "I only review issues on alternate Thursdays from 6 -7 pm.”This sets expectations for others, and gives you something to point to at other times to help de-escalate demands from contributors or users on your time.

Reviewer 3: [nitpicking] Some maintainers might find it difficult to say no due to having a certain personality type or cultural upbringing, so having a more empathetic tone in this paragraph would give them more courage to set boundaries. 
```suggestion
* **Set boundaries:** Aunt May from *SpiderMan* is onto something when she told Peter Parker "You do too much. You're not SuperMan you know?" We know it's difficult sometimes to say no and that you don't want to offend your contributions, so we came up with ways to help you. For example, you can say something like "I can't get to that right now and I do not have plans to in the future," or "I only merge PRs which have clearly listed reasons why they were made," or, "I only review issues every other Thursday from 6 -7 pm.” You can also list out what you're interested in doing and not doing in the README.
Doing these methods sets expectations for others, and gives you something to point to at other times to help de-escalate demands from contributors or users on your time.
```

<aside markdown="1" class="pquote">
  <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/mikemcquaid?s=180" class="pquote-avatar" alt="avatar">
To meaningfully trust others on these axes, you cannot be someone who says yes to every request. In doing so, you maintain no boundaries, professionally or personally, and will not be a reliable coworker.
  <p markdown="1" class="pquote-credit">
— <a href="https://github.com/mikemcquaid">@mikemcquaid</a>, maintainer of Homebrew on [Saying No](https://mikemcquaid.com/saying-no/)
  </p>
</aside>

  Learn to be firm in shutting down toxic behavior and negative interactions. It's okay to not give energy to things you don't care about.

<aside markdown="1" class="pquote">
  <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/IvanSanchez?s=180" class="pquote-avatar" alt="avatar">
My software is gratis, but my time and attention is not.
  <p markdown="1" class="pquote-credit">

> — <a href="https://github.com/IvanSanchez">@IvanSanchez</a>, , maintainer of Leaflet

Reviewer: ```suggestion
— <a href="https://github.com/IvanSanchez">@IvanSanchez</a>, maintainer of Leaflet
```

  </p>
</aside>

<aside markdown="1" class="pquote">
  <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/foosel?s=180" class="pquote-avatar" alt="avatar">
It's no secret that open source maintenance has its dark sides, and one of these is having to sometimes interact with quite ungrateful, entitled or outright toxic people. As a project's popularity increases, so does the frequency of this kind of interaction, adding to the burden shouldered by maintainers and possibly becoming a significant risk factor for maintainer burnout.  
  <p markdown="1" class="pquote-credit">

> — <a href="https://github.com/foosel">@foosel</a>, ,maintainer of Octoprint on [How to deal with toxic people](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7lIpP3GEyXs)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
— <a href="https://github.com/foosel">@foosel</a>, maintainer of Octoprint on [How to deal with toxic people](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7lIpP3GEyXs)
```

* [Rockwood Art of Leadership](https://rockwoodleadership.org/art-of-leadership/)
* [Saying No](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1esQQBJXQi1x_-1AcRVPiCRAEQYO4Qlvali0ylCvKa_s/edit?pli=1#:~:text=Saying%20No%20%7C%20Mike%20McQuaid), Mike McQuaid
* [Governing Open](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1esQQBJXQi1x_-1AcRVPiCRAEQYO4Qlvali0ylCvKa_s/edit?pli=1#:~:text=a%20mixed%20list.-,Governance%20of%20Open%20Source%20Software,-governingopen.com)
* Workshop agenda was remixed from [Mozilla's Movement Building from Home](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1esQQBJXQi1x_-1AcRVPiCRAEQYO4Qlvali0ylCvKa_s/edit?pli=1#:~:text=a%20mixed%20list.-,It%E2%80%99s%20a%20wrap%3A%20Movement%2DBuilding%20from%20Home,-foundation.mozilla.org) series

## Contributors

Many thanks to all the maintainers who shared their experiences and tips with us for this guide!

This guide was written by [@abbycabs](https://github.com/abbycabs) with contributions from: 

[@agnostic-apollo](https://github.com/agnostic-apollo)
[@AndreaGriffiths11](https://github.com/AndreaGriffiths11)
[@antfu](https://github.com/antfu)
[@anthonyronda](https://github.com/anthonyronda)

> [@CBID2](https://github.com/CBID2)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[Christine Belzie](https://github.com/CBID2)
```

---
lang: en
title: Maintaining Balance for Open Source Maintainers
description: Tips for self-care and avoiding burnout as a maintainer.
class: balance

> order: 0

Author: I set this to `0` temporarily to put the article at the top of the page as it's fresh new content. (If we add more articles, we can rethink the ordering / IA).

Reviewer 4: 3058
